
### Functions with Output Parameters

In many situations, we would like to define functions that compute more than one value
Examples:
- A function that computes the min and max of numbers
- A function that computes the variance and deviation
- etc.

**Question:** Is that possible?

**Absolutely**. Function parameters would appear a promising place to start. But we first need to understand precisely what happens when we call a function with parameters

Example:
```c
void my_function(int a, char b, double c);

int main (void) {
	int myint;
	char mychar;
	double mydouble;
	myint = 12;
	mychar = 'a';
	mydouble = 23.45;
	my_function(myint, mychar, mydouble);
	//...
}

void my_function(int a, char b, double c) {
	//This does random, meaningless stuff
	++a;
	b = 'd';
	c *= 2
	//Think the numbers will be modified in main()? Think twice!
	//These are local variables! Modifying them does not change their value in main()!
	//Use pointers and the dereference operator (*) for such modifications.
}
```

Remember that each function has a separate area of memory for storing its local variables and parameters. Each data area exists only when the function is active. Before the call to `my_function`, memory may look something like this

Function `main`

data area
`myint`
`[ 12 ]`

`mychar`
`[ 'a' ]`

`mydouble`
`[ 23.45 ]`

Then, when the function `my_function` is called from `main`,  `my_function`'s data area becomes active, and the actual parameter values passed to `my_function` are *copied* to spaces in its memory area:

Function `main`                        Function `my_function`

data area$\large{\;\;\;\;\;\;\;\;\;\;\;\;\;\;\;\;\;\;\;\;\;\;\;\;\;\;\;}$data area
`myint`$\large{\;\;\;\;\;\;\;\;\;\;\;\;\;\;\;\;\;\;\;\;\;\;\;\;\;\;\;\;\;\;\;\;\;\;}$`a`
`[ 12 ]`------copied------> `[ 12 ]`

`mychar`$\large{\;\;\;\;\;\;\;\;\;\;\;\;\;\;\;\;\;\;\;\;\;\;\;\;\;\;\;\;\;\;\;\;}$ `b`
`[ 'a' ]`------copied----->`[ 'a' ]`

`mydouble`$\large{\;\;\;\;\;\;\;\;\;\;\;\;\;\;\;\;\;\;\;\;\;\;\;\;\;\;\;\;\;\;\;\;}$`c` 
`[ 23.45 ]`-----copied---->`[ 23.45 ]`

Finally, when function `my_function` finishes executing, its memory area disappears, and control returns to the `main` function. The state of memory thus returns to the state it was prior the the function call of `my_function`.

Function `main`

data area
`myint`
`[ 12 ]`

`mychar`
`[ 'a' ]`

`mydouble`
`[ 23.45 ]`

`my_function`'s data goes away after execution. It can't communicate with `main` through its parameter list. We want a two way flow, where data can be copied into `my_function`, and `my_function` can copy data back into `main`.

Let's look at the definition of a *pointer*
- A variable that stores as its contents the address of another variable

We should be able to use these address values to access a variable indirectly

Indirect access to these memory locations also will allow for modification to the contents.

We like to visualize pointers with the following:

`pointer`$\large{\;\;\;\;\;\;\;}$ `integer`
`[ 1000 ]`---> `[ 42 ]`
$\large{\;\;\;}$`2000`$\large{\;\;\;\;\;\;\;\;\;\;\;}$ `1000`

In C, we achieve the effect of output parameters by passing memory addresses (pointers) instead of values. Here's how we could modify our previous code to accomplish this:

```c
void my_function(int a, char b, double c);

int main (void) {
	int myint;
	char mychar;
	double mydouble;
	myint = 12;
	mychar = 'a';
	mydouble = 23.45;
	//pass memory locations of variables, not variables themselves
	my_function(&myint, &mychar, &mydouble);
	//...
}

void my_function(int *a, char *b, double *c) {
	++(*a); //increment the value at memory pointed to by a
	*b = 'd'; //assign 'd' to memory pointed to by b
	*c *= 2; //multiply memory pointed to at c by two and reassign
}
```

In order to visualize what the previous code is doing, we'll need to number arbitrarily the memory locations at which the variable values are stored:

