### How To Draw Lewis Structures

> **1.** Count the total number of valence electrons

For each atom, find how many valence electrons it has. Add these values together to get the total number of valence electrons.

*Recall:* To find amount of valence electrons on periodic table, write electron configuration of element, and find the amount of energy in its outer shell. (Easy trick that works on most: From left, count elements, skip d-block)

> **2.** Determine the central atom

Usually the least electronegative atom or has highest bonding capacity.
Remember that Boron, Aluminum, and Beryllium do not follow the octet rule. These can only have 6 electrons.

> **3.** Connect atoms with single bonds

Use single bonds, which represents a pair of electrons, to connect the central atom with others surrounding

> **4.** Complete octets (if central atom follows octet rule)

Add lone pairs to make sure each atom has a full outer shell of electrons (8). Remember bonds represent 2.

> **5.** Check electron count

Make sure that the total number of electrons in the Lewis structure is the same as the number of valence electrons in **Step 1.**

> **6.** Form Multiple Bonds (if necessary)

If the amount of electrons goes over the total number of valence electrons, consider switching lone pairs for additional bonds. Each bond switches 4 electrons for 2, or loses 2 electrons total.

> **7.** Check Formal Charges

Calculate formal charges with `[# of valence] - [# of nonbonding electrons] - [# of bonds]`(See [[6.5 Formal Charge]])
Make sure the formal charges are minimized so the structure is the most stable structure.

> **8.** Draw Resonance Structures (if necessary)

If multiple structures work, draw them. These are called resonance structures.

#### Tags

- [[AP Chemistry Information|AP Chemistry Information]]
- [[Unit 6 Overview]]
