The *Invertible Matrix Theorem* (IMT) connects all the notions that we've learn by far.

### Theorem 1. (Invertible Matrix Theorem)

Let $\large{A}$ be an $\large{n \times n}$ matrix. The following statements are equivalent.
1. $\large{A}$ is invertible (i.e., $\large{AB = BA = I}$ for some $\large{n \times n}$ matrix $\large{B}$ )
2. $\large{A}$ is row equivalent to $\large{I}$ (i.e., the REF of $\large{A}$ is $\large{I}$ )
3. $\large{A}$ has $\large{n}$ pivots
4. $\large{A}$ has a pivot in every row
5. $\large{A}$ has a pivot in every column
6. $\large{Ax= 0}$ has only the trivial solution (i.e., the only solution to $\large{Ax = 0}$ is the zero solution x = 0)
7. Columns of $\large{A}$ are linearly independent.
8. Columns of $\large{A}$ span $\large{\mathbb{R}^n}$ 
9. The linear transformation $\large{T(x) = Ax}$ is one-to-one.
10. The linear transformation $\large{T(x) = Ax}$ is ONTO.
11. $\large{Ax = b}$ has a unique solution for every $\large{b \in \mathbb{R}^n}$
12. There exists $\large{n \times n}$ matrix $\large{B}$ such that $\large{AB = I}$
13. There exists $\large{n \times n}$ matrix $\large{B}$ such that $\large{BA = I}$
14. $\large{A^T}$ is invertible

In general, the Gaussian-Jordan method can always be used to determine the invertibility a matrix and find its inverse when it exists

However, if we only wants to determine if a matrix is invertible, we can do the following.

>**Case 1:** If $\large{A = \begin{bmatrix} a & b \\ c & d \end{bmatrix}}$ is a $\large{2 \times 2}$ matrix check $\large{\det(A) = ad -bc}$ $$$$ **(a)** if $\large{\det(A) \neq 0}$, then A is non-invertible $$$$ **(b)** if $\large{\det(A) = 0}$, then $\large{A}$ is invertible

>**Case 2**: If A is an $\large{n \times n}$ matrix with $\large{n \geq 3}$, we need to find the number of pivots that $\large{A}$ has.

