## Primitive Data Types

**Boolean**: True or False 
Example: `True`
**Int**: Whole numbers (typically 32 bits)
Example: `1995`
**Double(also called floating point numbers)**: decimal values (typically 64 bits)
Example: `1.62`
**String**: sequence of characters
Example: "Charles Liu"

Primitive types are already part of the Java language. Except for `String`, non-primitive types are generally created by the programmer.

Non-primitive types can use methods to perform actions, but primitive types cannot

## Variable

What is a **variable**?

A variable is a name given to a memory location that is holding a specified type of value.

**Variable Naming Constraints**: 
- May consist of letters, digits, or an underscore (case sensitive)
- May *NOT* start with a digit
- Spaces are not allowed
- May *NOT* use any other characters such as & or @ or $
- May not use Java reserved words such as `public`, `class`, `void`
>[!tip] Camel Case
>It is good practice to use "camel case", or having variable names start with a lowercase letter and proceeding words be uppercase.
>Example: `aCamelCaseExample`

## Declaring Variables

Three primitive data types in Java:
- Integers (whole numbers): `int`
- Decimal numbers (floating-point value): `double`
- Boolean values (true/false): `boolean`

`dataType variableName;`

**Examples:**
```java
int total;
double intRate;
boolean giveBonus;
```

What if we want to declare a variable that **cannot be changed** once we give it a value? A *constant*?

We use the Java reserved word `final` in front of the declaration

```java
final double PI;
final int DAYS_IN_MONTH;
final boolean LIKE_JAVA;
```

### Practice

>[!question] Which of the following are valid variable declarations?

```java
int value;
double 4eva;
boolean public;
integer sum;
double wow!;
boolean foundIt;
int numberOfPigs;
double chanceOfRain;
boolean #apDaily;
int count;
bool isFriday;
final int DOZEN;
```

### Solution 

>[!check] Solution

```java
int value; //valid
double 4eva; //invalid
boolean public; //invalid
integer sum; //invalid
double wow!; //invalid
boolean foundIt; //valid
int numberOfPigs; //valid
double chanceOfRain; //valid
boolean #apDaily; //invalid
int count; //valid
bool isFriday; //invalid
final int DOZEN; //valid
```

### Practice

Write the code to:
1. Declare a variable to hold the number of marbles in a jar.
2. Declare a variable to hold the precise average of 10 test grades
3. Declare a variable to indicate the presence of sugar in a drink
4. Declare a variable to hold the non-changing number of tires on a car.

### Solution

>[!check] Solution

```java
int numMarbles;
double testAverages;
boolean sugarPresence;
final int tireCount;
```
