We can use a simpler compound assignment method to reduce syntax length

| Compound Assignment Operator | Same As |
| --- | --- |
| `x += 7` | `x = x + 7` |
| `x -= 3` | `x = x - 3` |
| `x *= 10` | `x = x * 10` |
| `x /= 5` | `x = x / 5`|
| `x %= 4` | `x = x % 4` |

>[!question] Practice
What is the output of the following segment of code?
```java
/*
Programmer: Charles Liu
Date: 1/9/23
Purpose: Demonstrate compound assignment operators
*/

public class compoundOperators {
	public static void main(String[] args) {
		int x = 6;
		x += 7;
		x -= 3;
		x *= 10;
		x /= 5;
		x %= 3;
		System.out.println(x);
	}
}
```

>[!check]- Solution
>x starts at 6
>6 + 7 = 13
>13 - 3 = 10
>10 * 10 = 100
>100 / 5 = 20
>20 % 3 = 2
> 
> The output is `2`.

## Increment and Decrement Operators

`x++;` adds one onto the value stored in the variable, and assigns that back to x

`x--;` subtracts one onto the value stored in the variable, and assigns that back to x

You can assign the increment/decrement before or after x
**Prefix form**: `++x;` You do not need to learn this for the AP exam, but there is a slight difference
**Suffix form**: `x++;`

>[!question] Example
>What is the output of the following segment of code?
```java
/*
Programmer: Charles Liu
Date: 1/9/23
Purpose: Demonstrate compound assignment operators
*/

public class compoundOperators {
	public static void main(String[] args) {
		int x = 2;
		int y = 7;
		x++;
		y--;
		System.out.println(x);
		System.out.println(y);
	}
}
```

>[!check]- Solution
>x, which is 2 originally, is incremented to 3
>y, which is 7 originally, is decremented to 6
> 
> So x ends up as 3, y ends up as 6
> 
> Output: 
> `3`
> `6`

___
>[!question] Question
> Describe the behavior of the following code segment. (Describe means use verbs and written descriptions to explain the code)
```java
int x = 23;
x *= 2;
x %= 10;
System.out.println(x);
```

>[!check]- Solution
>1. The variable x is defined as an integer and initialized to the value 23
>2. The current value of x is multiplied by 2 and reassigned to x.
>3. The current value of x is modded by 10, and the result is reassigned to x.
>4. The current value of x is displayed.
**Note:** We want to be as specific as possible in these types of questions.

___


>[!question] 
>Describe the behavior of the following code segment.

```java
int x = 23;
int y = 17;
x *= 4;
y++;
x /= 3;
y -= 9;
x %= y;
System.out.println(x);
```

>[!check]- Solution
>1. The variable x is defined as an integer and initialized to the value 23.
>2. The variable y is defined as an integer and initialized to the value 17.
>3. The current value of x is multiplied by 4 and reassigned to x.
>4. The current value of y is incremented by 1 and reassigned to y.
>5. The current value of x is divided by 3, which is integer division which results in truncating or flooring to the nearest integer, and this new value is reassigned to x.
>6. The current value of y is subtracted by 9 and reassigned to y.
>7. The current value of x is modded by y and reassigned to x
>8. The current value of x is displayed.

___

>[!question] Question
>Trace the same code segment above. (Determine output by going line-by-line).

>[!check]- Solution
```java
int x = 23; //x is 23 originally
int y = 17; //y is 17 originally
x *= 4; //x becomes 23*4 = 92
y++; //y becomes 17+1 = 18
x /= 3; //x becomes 92/3 = 30 (remember int division truncates)
y -= 9; //y becomes 18-9 = 9
x %= y; //x becomes 30%9 = 3
System.out.println(x); //x is displayed as 3
```